[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The first photo of the
Milky Way's massive black hole.
It's time to meet Sagittarius A.
>> Well, one of the things that
we've thought about for a long
time is that there might be
giant black holes in the center
of galaxies.
And as it turns
out, that's true.
>> This is "Gaia News."
The Event Horizon Telescope
has captured the first photo
of Sagittarius A, a massive
black hole in the Milky Way.
This is only the second
image of a black hole.
The first was Messier
87 photographed in 2019.
This time, an international
team of more than 300 scientists
from 80 different institutions
worked on the project.
Feryal Ozel, a professor of
astronomy and astrophysics
at the University of Arizona and
a member of the research team,
said, quote, "Until now, we
didn't have the direct picture
to prove that this gentle giant
in the center of our galaxy
is a black hole.
It shows a bright
ring surrounding
the darkness and the
telltale sign of the shadow
of the black hole."
For more on the
significance of this finding
and how they were able to
see Sagittarius A, astronomer
and "Gaia News"
contributor Marc Dantonio,
what is the Event
Horizon Telescope?
>> Well, imagine this.
We have a telescope.
It has a diameter, and it
has a lens or a mirror.
And the bigger that
lens or that mirror,
the more light
can be brought in,
and the more information
we can gather.
We looked at this with a
bunch of these telescopes
around the Earth, and we
let the Earth rotate out
from underneath the
object it was looking at.
We got these arcs of content
data from this object
as the Earth rotated.
And we did that with
eight different telescopes
on the planet, OK?
And those were combined
to form, effectively,
an 8,000-mile
diameter telescope.
Now, that's the
diameter of the Earth.
What that does for us is it
gives us tremendous resolution,
beautiful resolution.
And this is something
that is unprecedented.
>> This is an interesting find
and great for astronomers.
What's the big takeaway?
>> This is a monumental
discovery for a couple
of reasons.
Number 1, it confirms that
the theory of relativity
is correct, because
relativity predicted
what the shape of the
black holes in Messier 87
and our galaxy would look like.
And this is exactly what we see.
Number 2, we're able
to image a black hole
for the very first
time in Messier 87
and then again with a brilliant
success in our own galaxy.
That method for doing
that is using these radio
telescopes all linked together,
which is the third thing.
We've now managed
to link telescopes
all over the world together
to form one massive telescope.
Not an easy feat
because the signal
getting to a telescope
closer to the black hole,
say, in our galaxy on the
other side of the Earth
is slightly different
in the amount of time
it takes for the signal to get
to that detector versus one
across the Earth.
The distance across the
Earth is a slight difference.
We'd never notice
it with our eyes,
OK, if you saw light beams
shine from one side of the Earth
to the other, but the telescopes
and the electronics do.
And so those signals have to
be taken in and normalized,
fixed for the
delay that it takes
for the light to go one
extra few thousand miles.
And once they normalize
that, then they
can build an image
that makes sense.
>> What's next?
What can we look forward
to in the future?
>> Let's play this
forward a few years.
The Event Horizon
Telescope right
now is limited to
eight instruments.
And they're eight instruments at
various locations on the Earth,
so we're getting a very rough,
crude 8,000-mile diameter
telescope.
But if we can add more
instruments to that mix,
we might get a much more refined
8,000-mile diameter telescope.
This is something that
we can really, really
use if we could use
it for other purposes,
like trying to
look for exoplanets
or trying to see other
worlds that might have
an atmosphere like our own.
Maybe that's a possibility to
use this type of approach for.
But again, it has to be refined
quite a lot more for that
to be useful.
Now, we have the James
Webb Space Telescope
that's out there.
It's got a 21-foot diameter
set of mirrors on it,
OK, compared to the
Hubble's 8-foot.
So 8 feet versus 21 feet,
huge difference in capability.
And it's already, just
in the testing phase,
making tremendous
scientific discoveries.
So we have to look
forward to some greater
discoveries with the
Event Horizon Telescope.
But why we want to know about
the black holes in the center
of our galaxy, the
center of Messier 87,
is because we're trying to
shore up the theory that maybe
these galaxies all have what we
call SMBHs, Supermassive Black
Holes, in their center.
Wow, what an idea.
And does that mean that's where
the galaxies first came from?
Did they seed the
galaxies, and then
stuff started spinning around?
Who knows?
I mean, that's part of the fun.
>> For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.